NiyamGuard is a synthetic policy-compliance and citizen-service sandbox, not an official government portal.
GO-138 changes Income Certificate validity from 12 months to 6 months. Ingestion, extraction, human review, publication, and propagation remain separate states.
The real end-to-end simulation creates reviewed policy state, checks mock systems, creates a synthetic application and simulated payment, performs officer review, issues a demo certificate, verifies it, and records audit evidence.
The hybrid engine answers from the verified source. Optional Ollama explanation falls back honestly when the local model is unavailable.
Mock systems are reset to the stale 12-month value, then the explicit demo workflow publishes and patches them to the verified 6-month rule. No real portal is contacted.
The citizen portal answers a validity question from the same verified rule and shows provenance. It does not auto-fill or submit an official application.
The generated demo certificate is verified using the simulation hash. This is not a government signature or certificate authority.
The operations dashboard derives compliance and coverage scores from assessed findings and checked connected systems.
Policy lineage links immutable versions to source, prior version, knowledge refresh, propagation work, compliance runs, and rollback evidence.
The searchable knowledge-relationship view traces verified rules into connected systems and visible drift status.
Audit evidence makes sandbox actions reviewable. Tests, builds, dependency checks, and secret scans support a strong local prototype claim.
Real deployment still requires authorized integrations, managed secrets, privacy, accessibility, security, legal, and department review.